---
title: Using Istanbul With ES2015+
layout: WithQuickStart
QuickStart:
  title: Using Istanbul With ES2015+
---

In this tutorial I'll walk you through setting up test coverage
for your fancy pants ES2015+ JavaScript projects. We'll cover two topics:
instrumenting native JavaScript code, and writing backwards
compatible ES2015+ code using <a href="https://github.com/babel/babel" target="_blank">babel</a>.

For this tutorial, feel free to follow along in the repository <a href="https://github.com/bcoe/es2015-coverage" target="_blank">bcoe/es2015-coverage</a>

## ES2015+ With `@babel/preset-env`

ES2015+ is composed of a <a href="https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/" target="_blank">daunting array</a> of JavaScript language features. Babel comes to the rescue, providing collections of plugins that
track the standardization process.

For this tutorial we will be using the <a href="http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-env/" target="_blank">env preset</a>, a collection of Babel plugins that
encompass many of the exciting features currently in the pipeline for JavaScript.

### Prerequisites

By relying on the preset, there are only a few dependencies that we need to add
test coverage to our ES2015 project:

```bash
npm i @babel/cli @babel/register babel-plugin-istanbul @babel/preset-env cross-env mocha chai nyc --save-dev
```

* `@babel/cli`: is the command-line interface for babel; we use it during the build step.
* `@babel/register`: automatically compiles ES2015+ JavaScript as it's required in your
   tests.
* `babel-plugin-istanbul`: this plugin adds coverage instrumentation to your ES2015+ code
   as it's compiled.
* `nyc`: outputs the coverage information to disk, and handles running reports.
* `cross-env`: used to set `NODE_ENV=test` in a cross-platform compatible way.
* `mocha`/`chai`: the test framework that I happen to be using for this tutorial.

### Configuration

**.babelrc**

We place a `.babelrc` in the root of our project which is used by `@babel/cli`
to apply the compilation process:

```json
{
  "presets": [
    "env"
  ],
  "env": {
    "test": {
      "plugins": [
        "istanbul"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

* `presets.env`: indicates that we should load the `@babel/preset-env` set of plugins, which is kept up to date for us.
* `env.test.plugins.istanbul`: indicates that we should run the `babel-plugin-istanbul`
plugin only when `NODE_ENV=test`.

**package.json: configuring nyc**

```json
{
  "nyc": {
    "require": [
      "@babel/register"
    ],
    "reporter": [
      "lcov",
      "text"
    ],
    "sourceMap": false,
    "instrument": false
  }
}
```

* `nyc.require.@babel/register`: indicates that we should automatically run
  `require('@babel/register')` as `nyc` loads our tests. This allows us to
   write ES2015+ code in our tests without running a build step (code is automatically
   compiled by babel as it is loaded).
* `nyc.sourceMap=false`/`nyc.instrument=false`: indicates that we should not use
  `nyc` for instrumenting tests with coverage or handling source-maps; this
  logic is instead handled by `babel` and `babel-plugin-istanbul`.
* `nyc.reporter`: A list of reporters that you can use, all of which come from
  [istanbul](https://github.com/istanbuljs/istanbuljs/tree/master/packages/istanbul-reports/lib). In this case we telling nyc to ask for an `lcov` which gives you
  a set of html reports for each file instrumented as well as an `lcov.info` file which can
  be sent to coverage services like coveralls.io or codecov.io. The `text` reporter gives
  a table summary of each file's coverage in the terminal.

**package.json: script stanza**

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "babel index.js -d src",
    "test": "cross-env NODE_ENV=test nyc mocha test.js",
    "prepublish": "npm run build"
  }
}
```

* `scripts.test`:
  * `cross-env NODE_ENV=test`: sets the `NODE_ENV` environment variable resulting in the `babel-plugin-istanbul` plugin being loaded.
  * `nyc`: indicates that nyc should be used to run `mocha`.
  * `mocha test.js`: it doesn't get much simpler than this; use `mocha` to run
    `test.js`.
* `scripts.build`: this script uses `babel-cli` to compile your ES2015+ code.
* `scripts.prepublish`: we automatically run the build step before publishing our
  package to npm.

### Writing Tests

Because `nyc` automatically loads `@babel/register` there is no
build step necessary for your tests. Just write your tests using
ES2015+ syntax and `require()` the pre-compiled ES2015+ JavaScript files:

```js
import CoverageBabel from './index'

require('chai').should()

describe('CoverageBabel', function () {
  it('returns hello world message', function () {
    const cls = new CoverageBabel('Ben')
    cls.helloMessage().should.equal('hello Ben')
  })
})
```

### Shipping Your Code

When it's time to publish your code to npm, simply use `@babel/cli` to compile
your ES2015+ JavaScript into ES5 compatible code:

`babel index.js -d src`

This command will read in your ES2015+ `./index.js` file and output the ES5
`./src/index.js` file. Only `./src/index.js` should be published to npm, which
can be achieved by adding a `files` stanza to your package.json:

```json
{
  "files": [
    "src/index.js"
  ]
}
```

## Instrumenting Native ES2015+ Code

If you're using newer versions's of Node.js various ES2015+ features are already
supported. <a href="http://node.green/" target="_blank">node.green</a> provides
a useful chart for viewing compatibility information.

nyc uses the same parser underneath the hood as babel and understands native
ES2015+ constructs; with zero configuration you can start instrumenting your ES2015+ code!
