---
layout: tutorial
title: Mocha
tldr: >
  <div class="page-heading">Quick Start</div>
    <p class="description">
      Adding coverage to your mocha tests couldn't be easier:
    </p>
    <div class="sh-code">
      $ npm install --save-dev nyc
    </div>
    <p class="description">
      Now, simply place the command <strong>nyc</strong> in front of the existing test
      script in your package.json:
    </p>
    <pre><code class="hljs language-json">{
    "scripts": {
      "test": "nyc mocha"
    }
  }</code></pre>
---

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

# Istanbul and Mocha

_Istanbul is extensively tested with <a href="https://mochajs.org/" target="_blank">mocha</a>, which we use for many of our own repos._

At the end of the day, all you need to do is place the bin **nyc** in front of the
existing test scripts in your package.json:

<pre><code class="hljs language-json">{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "nyc mocha --timeout=3000"
  }
}</code></pre>

_that's it!_ this will instrument the code that your tests execute, and any
subprocesses that it spawns.

## Using Alternative Reporters

By default nyc uses Istanbul's `text` reporter. Various other reporters are
available in the <a href="https://github.com/istanbuljs/istanbul-reports/tree/master/lib" target="_blank">istanbul-reports</a>
repo.

If you'd like to specify alternate reporter, or would like to run
multiple reporters, simply use the `--reporter` flag.

_for instance, suppose you would like to output the default text report, along
with an HTML coverage report._

<pre><code class="hljs language-json">{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "nyc --reporter=html --reporter=text mocha"
  }
}</code></pre>

This will output the `text` report to the terminal, as well as outputting the
detailed `html` report to `./coverage/index.html`.

## Integrating with Coveralls

<a href="https://coveralls.io" target="_blank">coveralls.io</a> is a great tool for adding coverage reporting to your continuous-integration flow. Here's how to get Istanbul
integrated with coveralls and <a href="https://travis-ci.org/" target="_blank">travis-ci.org</a>:

1. add the coveralls dependency to your module:

  <pre><code class="hljs language-bash">npm install coveralls --save-dev</code></pre>

2. update the scripts in your package.json to include a bin for reporting coverage to coveralls:

<pre><code class="hljs language-bash">{
  "script": {
     "test": "nyc --reporter=html --reporter=text mocha",
     "coverage": "nyc report --reporter=text-lcov | coveralls"
  }
}</code></pre>

3. For private repos, add the environment variable `COVERALLS_REPO_TOKEN` to Travis.

4. add the following to your `.travis.yml`:

  <pre><code class="hljs language-yaml">after_success: npm run coverage</code></pre>

## What Now?

nyc and Istanbul provide many advanced configuration options a good place to
start learning more is the <a href="https://github.com/istanbuljs/nyc" target="_blank">istanbuljs/nyc README.</a>

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}
